README.md, before:

[![Travis CI](https://secure.travis-ci.org/rails/strong_parameters.png)](http://travis-ci.org/rails/strong_parameters) [![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/strong_parameters.png)](http://badge.fury.io/rb/strong_parameters)
# Strong Parameters

With this plugin Action Controller parameters are forbidden to be used in Active Model mass assignments until they have been whitelisted. This means you'll have to make a conscious choice about which attributes to allow for mass updating and thus prevent accidentally exposing that which shouldn't be exposed.

In addition, parameters can be marked as required and flow through a predefined raise/rescue flow to end up as a 400 Bad Request with no effort.

``` ruby
class PeopleController < ActionController::Base
  # This will raise an ActiveModel::ForbiddenAttributes exception because it's using mass assignment
  # without an explicit permit step.
  def create
    Person.create(params[:person])
  end

  # This will pass with flying colors as long as there's a person key in the parameters, otherwise
  # it'll raise an ActionController::ParameterMissing exception, which will get caught by
  # ActionController::Base and turned into that 400 Bad Request reply.
  def update
    person = current_account.people.find(params[:id])
    person.update_attributes!(person_params)
    redirect_to person
  end

  private
    # Using a private method to encapsulate the permissible parameters is just a good pattern
    # since you'll be able to reuse the same permit list between create and update. Also, you
    # can specialize this method with per-user checking of permissible attributes.
    def person_params
      params.require(:person).permit(:name, :age)
    end
end
```

## Permitted Scalar Values

Given

``` ruby
params.permit(:id)
```

the key `:id` will pass the whitelisting if it appears in `params` and it has a permitted scalar value associated. Otherwise the key is going to be filtered out, so arrays, hashes, or any other objects cannot be injected.

The permitted scalar types are `String`, `Symbol`, `NilClass`, `Numeric`, `TrueClass`, `FalseClass`, `Date`, `Time`, `DateTime`, `StringIO`, `IO`, `ActionDispatch::Http::UploadedFile` and `Rack::Test::UploadedFile`.

To declare that the value in `params` must be an array of permitted scalar values map the key to an empty array:

``` ruby
params.permit(:id => [])
```

To whitelist an entire hash of parameters, the `permit!` method can be used

``` ruby
params.require(:log_entry).permit!
```

This will mark the `:log_entry` parameters hash and any subhash of it permitted.  Extreme care should be taken when using `permit!` as it will allow all current and future model attributes to be mass-assigned.

## Nested Parameters

You can also use permit on nested parameters, like:

``` ruby
params.permit(:name, {:emails => []}, :friends => [ :name, { :family => [ :name ], :hobbies => [] }])
```

This declaration whitelists the `name`, `emails` and `friends` attributes. It is expected that `emails` will be an array of permitted scalar values and that `friends` will be an array of resources with specific attributes : they should have a `name` attribute (any permitted scalar values allowed), a `hobbies` attribute as an array of permitted scalar values, and a `family` attribute which is restricted to having a `name` (any permitted scalar values allowed, too).

Thanks to Nick Kallen for the permit idea!

## Require Multiple Parameters

If you want to make sure that multiple keys are present in a params hash, you can call the method twice:

``` ruby
params.require(:token)
params.require(:post).permit(:title)
```

## Handling of Unpermitted Keys

By default parameter keys that are not explicitly permitted will be logged in the development and test environment. In other environments these parameters will simply be filtered out and ignored.

Additionally, this behaviour can be changed by changing the `config.action_controller.action_on_unpermitted_parameters` property in your environment files. If set to `:log` the unpermitted attributes will be logged, if set to `:raise` an exception will be raised.

## Use Outside of Controllers

While Strong Parameters will enforce permitted and required values in your application controllers, keep in mind
that you will need to sanitize untrusted data used for mass assignment when in use outside of controllers.

For example, if you retrieve JSON data from a third party API call and pass the unchecked parsed result on to
`Model.create`, undesired mass assignments could take place.  You can alleviate this risk by slicing the hash data,
or wrapping the data in a new instance of `ActionController::Parameters` and declaring permissions the same as
you would in a controller.  For example:

``` ruby
raw_parameters = { :email => "john@example.com", :name => "John", :admin => true }
parameters = ActionController::Parameters.new(raw_parameters)
user = User.create(parameters.permit(:name, :email))
```

## More Examples

Head over to the [Rails guide about Action Controller](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/action_controller_overview.html#more-examples).

## Installation

In Gemfile:

``` ruby
gem 'strong_parameters'
```

and then run `bundle`. To activate the strong parameters, you need to include this module in
every model you want protected.

``` ruby
class Post < ActiveRecord::Base
  include ActiveModel::ForbiddenAttributesProtection
end
```

Alternatively, you can protect all Active Record resources by default by creating an initializer and pasting the line:

``` ruby
ActiveRecord::Base.send(:include, ActiveModel::ForbiddenAttributesProtection)
```

If you want to now disable the default whitelisting that occurs in Rails 3.2, change the `config.active_record.whitelist_attributes` property in your `config/application.rb`:

``` ruby
config.active_record.whitelist_attributes = false
```

This will allow you to remove / not have to use `attr_accessible` and do mass assignment inside your code and tests.

## Compatibility

This plugin is only fully compatible with Rails versions 3.0, 3.1 and 3.2 but not 4.0+, as it is part of Rails Core in 4.0.
An unofficial Rails 2 version is [strong_parameters_rails2](https://github.com/grosser/strong_parameters/tree/rails2).

Commit message:

allow optional inclusion in some controllers + update readme

README.md, after:

[![Travis CI](https://secure.travis-ci.org/rails/strong_parameters.png)](http://travis-ci.org/rails/strong_parameters) [![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/strong_parameters.png)](http://badge.fury.io/rb/strong_parameters)
# Strong Parameters

With this plugin Action Controller parameters are forbidden to be used in Active Model mass assignments until they have been whitelisted. This means you'll have to make a conscious choice about which attributes to allow for mass updating and thus prevent accidentally exposing that which shouldn't be exposed.

In addition, parameters can be marked as required and flow through a predefined raise/rescue flow to end up as a 400 Bad Request with no effort.

``` ruby
class PeopleController < ActionController::Base
  # This will raise an ActiveModel::ForbiddenAttributes exception because it's using mass assignment
  # without an explicit permit step.
  def create
    Person.create(params[:person])
  end

  # This will pass with flying colors as long as there's a person key in the parameters, otherwise
  # it'll raise an ActionController::ParameterMissing exception, which will get caught by
  # ActionController::Base and turned into that 400 Bad Request reply.
  def update
    person = current_account.people.find(params[:id])
    person.update_attributes!(person_params)
    redirect_to person
  end

  private
    # Using a private method to encapsulate the permissible parameters is just a good pattern
    # since you'll be able to reuse the same permit list between create and update. Also, you
    # can specialize this method with per-user checking of permissible attributes.
    def person_params
      params.require(:person).permit(:name, :age)
    end
end
```

## Permitted Scalar Values

Given

``` ruby
params.permit(:id)
```

the key `:id` will pass the whitelisting if it appears in `params` and it has a permitted scalar value associated. Otherwise the key is going to be filtered out, so arrays, hashes, or any other objects cannot be injected.

The permitted scalar types are `String`, `Symbol`, `NilClass`, `Numeric`, `TrueClass`, `FalseClass`, `Date`, `Time`, `DateTime`, `StringIO`, `IO`, `ActionDispatch::Http::UploadedFile` and `Rack::Test::UploadedFile`.

To declare that the value in `params` must be an array of permitted scalar values map the key to an empty array:

``` ruby
params.permit(:id => [])
```

To whitelist an entire hash of parameters, the `permit!` method can be used

``` ruby
params.require(:log_entry).permit!
```

This will mark the `:log_entry` parameters hash and any subhash of it permitted.  Extreme care should be taken when using `permit!` as it will allow all current and future model attributes to be mass-assigned.

## Nested Parameters

You can also use permit on nested parameters, like:

``` ruby
params.permit(:name, {:emails => []}, :friends => [ :name, { :family => [ :name ], :hobbies => [] }])
```

This declaration whitelists the `name`, `emails` and `friends` attributes. It is expected that `emails` will be an array of permitted scalar values and that `friends` will be an array of resources with specific attributes : they should have a `name` attribute (any permitted scalar values allowed), a `hobbies` attribute as an array of permitted scalar values, and a `family` attribute which is restricted to having a `name` (any permitted scalar values allowed, too).

Thanks to Nick Kallen for the permit idea!

## Require Multiple Parameters

If you want to make sure that multiple keys are present in a params hash, you can call the method twice:

``` ruby
params.require(:token)
params.require(:post).permit(:title)
```

## Handling of Unpermitted Keys

By default parameter keys that are not explicitly permitted will be logged in the development and test environment. In other environments these parameters will simply be filtered out and ignored.

Additionally, this behaviour can be changed by changing the `config.action_controller.action_on_unpermitted_parameters` property in your environment files. If set to `:log` the unpermitted attributes will be logged, if set to `:raise` an exception will be raised.

## Partial insclusion

If you won't affect all controllers inherited from `ActionController::Base`,
you can require this gem like this and include it manually

```ruby
gem 'strong_parameters', require: ['strong_parameters/requires']

class SomeController < ActionController::Base
  include ActionController::StrongParameters
  ...
```

## Use Outside of Controllers

While Strong Parameters will enforce permitted and required values in your application controllers, keep in mind
that you will need to sanitize untrusted data used for mass assignment when in use outside of controllers.

For example, if you retrieve JSON data from a third party API call and pass the unchecked parsed result on to
`Model.create`, undesired mass assignments could take place.  You can alleviate this risk by slicing the hash data,
or wrapping the data in a new instance of `ActionController::Parameters` and declaring permissions the same as
you would in a controller.  For example:

``` ruby
raw_parameters = { :email => "john@example.com", :name => "John", :admin => true }
parameters = ActionController::Parameters.new(raw_parameters)
user = User.create(parameters.permit(:name, :email))
```

## More Examples

Head over to the [Rails guide about Action Controller](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/action_controller_overview.html#more-examples).

## Installation

In Gemfile:

``` ruby
gem 'strong_parameters'
```

and then run `bundle`. To activate the strong parameters, you need to include this module in
every model you want protected.

``` ruby
class Post < ActiveRecord::Base
  include ActiveModel::ForbiddenAttributesProtection
end
```

Alternatively, you can protect all Active Record resources by default by creating an initializer and pasting the line:

``` ruby
ActiveRecord::Base.send(:include, ActiveModel::ForbiddenAttributesProtection)
```

If you want to now disable the default whitelisting that occurs in Rails 3.2, change the `config.active_record.whitelist_attributes` property in your `config/application.rb`:

``` ruby
config.active_record.whitelist_attributes = false
```

This will allow you to remove / not have to use `attr_accessible` and do mass assignment inside your code and tests.

## Compatibility

This plugin is only fully compatible with Rails versions 3.0, 3.1 and 3.2 but not 4.0+, as it is part of Rails Core in 4.0.
An unofficial Rails 2 version is [strong_parameters_rails2](https://github.com/grosser/strong_parameters/tree/rails2).
